In the last lectures, we edited our form using the template driven approach,
now let's move onto the reactive approach for the new recipe or editing an existing one.
We got our recipe edit component here and it doesn't have a form inside of it, so we should definitely
change this. In here,
I will start by adding a row and then a column which should span the full width for all device sizes
and then the form, without an action because we don't want to send a request,
we want to handle it in Angular.
Now we will need a couple of inputs here,
I will actually begin with the save and cancel buttons though.
So right at the start of this form, I'll add another bootstrap row, col-xs-12 will be width
and here I want to have a button of type submit with a class of button and then btn-success, so that
it's a green button which should simply save the form, should save the recipe.
I'll have a second button of type button so that it doesn't submit the form which will be of or which
would get the class btn-danger, which should simply cancel the editing here.
So these are the two buttons which allow me to control the form in the end.
Now for the inputs, I definitely want a row with my default column width here, where I will add a div with
the form-group
CSS
class
to simply use that bootstrap CSS class to give it some nice styling, then I'll add a label for the
name of that recipe and I'll say name here and I will add the input, the input will be of type text with
the ID name maybe and let's already structure this over multiple lines and with a class of form-control,
to make it look nice.
Now I will actually copy that row and paste it in below this name, here
I want to have my imagePath, so I'll name it
ImageUrl here, this input and here I simply want the user to paste in the imagePath.
So that will be this row, below it I'll add another row, here
I won't have my FormGroup though,
instead I want to preview the image the user pasted in.
So I will simply add my image element here,
I will later bind the source and assign the image responsive class to it,
we will fine tune this later if needed.
So that allows the user to enter a title and an image and see that image as a preview.
Now I'll add another row with another label which should now say description,
so the description of our recipe or the content of the recipe, so I'll assign this for the ID description
which of course will be this but this will not be an input, I'll change it to a text area,
therefore I also need a closing tag for this. On this text area,
I want to provide let's say six rows for typing,
so that is not too big, not too small,
should be ok.
Well and then below this, I'll add yet another div,
this will later be required for the ingredients of that recipe here.
So here, we will actually need to create an array of controls and we will need to manage this,
we did learn how to do this but here, we will see it in practice in a real project.
Now here as this will be for my array of items, I will get rid of the label and get rid of the ID, also
get rid of that div here, instead
I will add a new row inside of there,
we're going to have multiple ingredients probably
and each row should then have a couple of columns.
The first one spanning almost the entire width,
it will hold the input for the name of the ingredient.
The second one being very narrow next to it which should hold the amount and the third one,
also a very small column, should hold a button which allows me to delete an ingredient,
therefore btn-danger and put an X on it.
So if you have a look at this, that is how a single ingredient will look like.
Now we don't have descriptions for these inputs,
you could of course restructure this form and try placing labels next to them or use a different layout,
I like that layout here though. With that, we got the HTML code
almost finished.
There is something missing but before we work on this, let's make this base form work without ingredients
for a start.